Fork a Repository
A fork is a copy of a repository. This is useful when you want to contribute to someone else's project or start your own project based on theirs.

fork is not a command in Git, but something offered in GitHub and other repository hosts. Let's start by logging in to GitHub, and fork the repository:

https://github.com/w3schools-test/w3schools-test.github.io

Now we have our own copy of w3schools-test.github.io


Now let's look at how we add a local copy of this for us to work with

Clone a Fork from GitHub
Now we have our own fork, but only on GitHub. We also want a clone on our local Git to keep working on it.

A clone is a full copy of a repository, including all logging and versions of files.

Move back to the original repository, and click the green "Code" button to get the URL to clone:

https://github.com/w3schools-test/w3schools-test.github.io.git

Open your Git bash and clone the repository:


Note: To specify a specific folder to clone to, add the name of the folder after the repository URL, like this: 
git clone https://github.com/w3schools-test/w3schools-test.github.io.git myfolder

git clone https://github.com/w3schools-test/w3schools-test.github.io.


Take a look in your file system, and you will see a new directory named after the cloned project

$ ls

Navigate to the new directory, and check the status:

$ cd fork

git status

And check the log to confirm that we have the full repository data:

git log

Configuring Remotes

Basically, we have a full copy of a repository, whose origin we are not allowed to make changes to.

Let's see how the remotes of this Git is set up:

git remote -v

* the -v flag is used for getting the url


We see that origin is set up to the original "w3schools-test" repository, we also want to add our own fork.

First, we rename the original origin remote:

git remote rename origin upstream
git remote -v

Then fetch the URL of our own fork:

https://github.com/abdutech1/practice-w3schools-test.github.io.git

And add that as origin:

git remote add origin https://github.com/abdutech1/practice-w3schools-test.github.io.git


git remote -v

Note: According to Git naming conventions, it is recommended to name your own repository origin, and the one you forked for upstream

Now we have 2 remotes:

origin - our own fork, where we have read and write access
upstream - the original, where we have read-only access


Push Changes to Our GitHub Fork
We have made a lot of changes to our local Git.

Now we push them to our GitHub fork:

commit the changes:


git push origin

Go to GitHub, and we see that the repository has a new commit. And we can send a Pull Request to the original repository:

Click that and create a pull request:

Remember to add an explanation for the administrators







